# Press Release, October 5, 2015

### New OpenSwitch Developers Community Accelerates Data Center Networking with a Consistent, Modern Open Source Network OS

*Developers Invited to Innovate without Restrictions in order to Rapidly Engineer Purpose-Built Networks, While Reducing Risk and Complexity*

**PALO ALTO, Calif. – Oct. 5, 2015** – HP today announced the launch of the OpenSwitch community and a new open source network operating system (NOS).  HP and key supporters, Accton Technology Corporation, Arista, Broadcom, Intel, and VMWare, are delivering a community-based platform that provides developers and users the ability to accelerate innovation, avoid vendor lock-in, and realize investment protection as they rapidly build data center networks customized for unique business applications.  

The always-on nature of the global digital economy and the massive influx of data have changed how network operators, cloud providers, telecoms, and enterprises think about networking. The volume of network traffic is growing exponentially, forcing large web-scale organizations to scale their data centers to new levels. These organizations need scale and flexibility to pivot their data centers on-demand to meet increasingly complex business and technology requirements.

“Open source software, with its collaborative community of specialized developers, accelerates innovation and improves the stability of the software platform, providing organizations with a more powerful infrastructure to support their specific business requirements,” said Mark Carroll, chief technology officer for HP Networking. “The newly formed developer community and Linux-based OpenSwitch NOS early release code will help developers address the rapidly evolving business and web-scale networking needs in the industry.”

**Establishing a New Benchmark for Community-based Innovation**
Traditional data center switching platforms were created by a group of developers within single vendors’ organizations, which limits the robustness, applicability to a range of use cases, and speed of innovation in those platforms.  The OpenSwitch Community establishes a virtual innovation zone where a limitless number of developers and users collaborate to exchange information, test theories and innovate to create better, higher quality, and more secure network operating systems.

**Disrupting Legacy Data Center Networks with a Fully Featured Open Source NOS**
Traditional networking is based on a closed, proprietary and vertically integrated model. This closed model does not allow customers, or their software and integrator partners, to innovate and tailor their networks to meet their business needs, because an open community does not have access and the ability to modify NOS source code. An open source NOS, based on open standards, allows developers to engineer networks to prioritize business critical workloads and functions, delivering the users a dramatically improved experience.  Networks based on an open NOS will also remove the burdens of interoperability issues and complex licensing structures that are inherent in the proprietary model.

“Network disaggregation ranks as one of the most disruptive developments in networking, even more disruptive, in many respects, than software defined networking,” said Brad Casemore, research director, Datacenter Networks, IDC. “By decoupling the underlying switch hardware from the network operating systems that run on it, HP and the other early contributors of the OpenSwitch Community are seeking to enable enterprises and large web-scale companies to rapidly innovate and engineer purpose-build data centers without the constraint of vendor lock-in.”

As part of the Open Switch Community, developers and users will build upon the newly released NOS, which includes the following:

•	A fully featured NOS with L2/L3 protocols support
•	Open source cloud database for persistent and ephemeral configuration
•	All inter-module communication is through system database
•	Universal API approach: CLI, REST, Puppet/Chef, Ansible

**Early Supporters for the OpenSwitch Community**
“As one of the largest proponents of open networking through community led projects such as Open vSwitch, VMware is excited to see new and meaningful open source advancements in the networking space,” said Guido Appenzeller, Chief technology Strategy Officer, Networking and Security Business Unit, VMware. “More and more, we see customers looking for flexibility and openness in their networking environments as a means to operate and innovate at a much faster rate.”

“Broadcom is excited to contribute and enhance support for its OpenNSL and BroadView™ instrumentation software to the OpenSwitch project to enable deployments over industry leading Broadcom® Tomahawk™ and Trident II switches,” said Ram Velaga, Broadcom Senior Vice President and General Manager, Network Switch.

“Arista has always embraced merchant silicon and open standards-based networking,” said Jeff Raymond, vice president, EOS Product Management and Services, Arista “We believe the future integration of DevOps and NetOps requires a best-of-breed ecosystem across the cloud stack. We welcome the OpenSwitch initiative as another example of disrupting the legacy models.”

“As a leading provider of open network switches, we understand that enterprises, telecoms and cloud providers with web-scale infrastructures want greater automation and control over their networks through the use of open software platforms,” said George Tchaparian, GM of Data Center Networks, Accton Technology Corporation. “The new network operating system and supporting community will empower customers with this level of control, while significantly reducing network total cost of ownership.”

**Availability**
The OpenSwitch Community is operating today. Visit www.openswitch.net for information about OpenSwitch NOS, how to join the community and where to obtain the initial developer release (available now).

The OpenSwitch NOS will be supported on HP’s Altoline open network switches.  HP Technology Services will offer customers professional and support services for networks based on OpenSwitch NOS to allow for secure and low risk deployments in production infrastructures.

**About HP**
HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. With the broadest technology portfolio spanning printing, personal systems, software, services and IT infrastructure, HP delivers solutions for customers' most complex challenges in every region of the world. More information about HP is available at http://www.hp.com.

© 2015 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of HP for future operations, including the separation transaction; the future performance if Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. if the separation is completed; any statements concerning expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; risks associated with executing HP's strategy, including the planned separation transaction, and plans for future operations and investments; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP's products and services effectively; the protection of HP's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the execution, timing and results of restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost and the anticipated benefits of implementing those plans; the execution, timing and results of the separation transaction or restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP's business) and the anticipated benefits of implementing the separation transaction and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2013, and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2014. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
