# Source Interface Selection Design

## Contents
   - [High level design of source interface selection](#high-level-design-of-source-interface-selection)
   - [Internal structure](#internal-structure)
   - [OVSDB schema](#ovsdb-schema)
       - [System table](#system-table)
   - [References](#references)

## High level design of source interface selection

The source IP address is determined by the system and is usually the IP address of the outgoing interface in the routing table. However, routing switches may have multiple routing interfaces due to load balancing or routing redundancy, and outgoing packets can potentially be sent by different paths at different times. This results in different source IP addresses, which creates a client identification problem on the server site.

To decrease the amount of administrative work involved, a configuration model is provided that allows the selection of an IP address to use as the source address for all outgoing traffic generated by a specified software application on the switch. This allows unique identification of the software application on the server site regardless of which local interface has been used to reach the destination server. The source interface selection supports selecting an IP address or interface name.

The source interface selection configuration can be done by the user through CLI. The CLI daemon updates the source interface selection configuration into the OVSDB. The protocol daemon gets the configuration update from the OVSDB and sets the source IP for all outgoing packets.

The source interface selection is supported only for IPv4.

## Internal structure

```ditaa
Source Interface Selection

+----------------+           +----------------------+             +-----------------+
|   CLI          +----------->                      |             |                 |
|  daemon        |           |       OVSDB          +------------->   Protocol      |
|                <-----------+                      |             |   daemon        |
+----------------+           +----------------------+             +-----------------+
```

## OVSDB schema
### System table
```
System:other_config
Keys:
tftp_source
Value: source interface or IP address for TFTP server.
protocols_source
Value: source interface or IP address for all the suported protocols.
```

## References
* Click [here](documents/user/source_interface_user_guide) for source interface selection user guide.
* Click [here](documents/user/source_interface_cli) for source interface selection CLI guide.
